Net Promoter Score

*** START OF NOTE ***

A management tool used to gauge the loyalty of a firm’s customer
relationships, an alternative to the traditional customer satisfaction.

It aims to measure the loyalty that exists between a provider and
consumer.

NPS score ranges from -100 (every respondent is a “detractor”) to +100
(every respondent is a “promotor”), with the particular ranges varying
across industries.

The metric was developed by Fred Reichheld, Bain & Company, and
Satmetrix

Basics

The Score is based on responses to the question “How likely is it that
you would recommend our company/product/service to a friend or
colleague?”, with the respondent answering with a score between 0 and
10.

-   Those who responds with 9 or 10 are labelled as Promoters
-   Those responding with 0to 6 are Detractors
-   7-8 are Passives

The NPS score is then calculated by subtracting the percentage of people
who are Detractors from those who are Promoters.

It is recommended to followup the above question with an open-ended one
for elaboration.

The System then requires a process to close the loop. This is the
process in which the provider actively intervenes to learn more from
customer who provided feedback and/or attempt to change negative
perception.

Findings

It has been found that differences in NPS score among direct competitors
in a market could explain substantial differences in revenue growth rate
between them in the market.

“Competitive benchmark” Net Promoter Scores collected through a
carefully constructed double-blind Quantitative marketing research
methodology provide the only valid basis for comparing scores.

For some industries, notably software and services, Detractors tend to
remain with a company while Passives leave. This could be due to those
cases having high switching barriers.

Criticisms

NPS does not add anything to other loyalty-related questions

NPS uses a scale that may not increase predictive validity.

Less accurate than composite index of questions

-   A single item question is much less reliable and more volatile than
    a composite index

Fails to predict loyalty behaviors

-   Use of multiple indicators instead of a single predictor model
    performs significantly better in predicting customer recommendations
    and retention
*** END OF NOTE ***